.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Paul Slavin <slavinp@cs.man.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" 2014-08-07, initial PeakMem man
.\"
.TH PEAKMEM 3 2014-08-17 "PeakMem" "PeakMem Manual"
.SH NAME
peakmem \- monitor memory usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBPeakMem\fR [\fB-l\fR|\fB-s\fR] [\fB-n\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIpid\fR | \fIprogram\fR
.sp
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR PeakMem
monitors, displays, and optionally writes to a log, the memory usage
characteristics of a program.

.BR PeakMem
operates in two main ways, it can either:
.sp
[1]  Launch a program from invocation
        -  e.g. $ peakmem \fIprogram\fR
.sp
   ...or...
.sp
[2]  Attach to an already-running program by specifying its pid
        -  e.g. $ peakmem -p \fIpid\fR


In the former case, the program may be anywhere in the shell's
.BR $PATH
or may be specified absolutely.  In the latter case, the pid
of an executing process may be acquired from the shell, or via
.BR psgrep
,
.BR ps(1)
,
.BR top(1)
, etc.
.SH USAGE
.BR PeakMem
provides several usage options:

Usage: PeakMem  [\fB-l\fR|\fB-s\fR] [\fB-n\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIpid\fR | \fIprogram\fR
    \fIprogram\fR               Launch and monitor \fIprogram\fR

    \fB-p\fR \fIpid\fR                Attach to existing process \fIpid\fR

    \fB-l\fR                    Write log file during operation.

    \fB-s\fR                    Print no output to terminal, implies \fB-l\fR.

    \fB-n\fR                    Disable ANSI colour for terminal output.

    \fB-h\fR                    Print this help.

During execution, the \fB'q'\fR key quits PeakMem. The \fB'u'\fR key cycles
the base in which units are displayed from the default kB, to mB and gB.
.SH LOGGING
The \fB-l\fR switch causes \fBPeakMem\fR to write a logfile during
monitoring of the program.


This logfile is in the following format:

    # "PeakMem: cubedsphere-mc48.31517.log"
    # Seconds:VmPeak:VmSize:VmHWM:VmRSS
          0 1009052 1009052 1144 1144
    ...

where the first line contains the program's name and pid, and
the subsequent lines contain data corresponding to the 
\fISeconds:VmPeak:VmSize:VmHWM:VmRSS\fR columns.

Note that the logfile values are always written in kB and are unaffected by
the display unit selected during execution.

This format is suited to plotting with \fBGNUplot\fR, and a sample script
to generate a plot is provided (\fIoutput.plot\fR) along with sample data
(\fIcubedsphere-mc48.31517.log\fR) in the \fBplot/\fR directory of this
distribution.

As an example, \fBGNUplot\fR may be invoked with:

    $ gnuplot -p output.plot < cubedsphere-mc48.31517.log

to generate a plot on the terminal.  The \fIoutput.plot\fR file may
be customised as required.
.SH ABOUT
The \fBPeakMem\fR homepage is \fIhttp://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~slavinp/peakmem.html\fR
and the latest version is also available from
\fIhttps://github.com/pmslavin/peakmem\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR proc (5),
.SH COLOPHON
PeakMem was produced as part of the
\fI"Next-Generation Weather & Climate Prediction"\fR
programme by
\fIPaul\ Slavin\fR <slavinp@cs.man.ac.uk>
of The University of Manchester.
